WILD RICE, SAUSAGE AND FENNEL STUFFING 

The flavor of the stuffing complements most fowl--there is enough here to
stuff a 12-pound turkey or six game hens. The stuffing is also delicious
as a side dish with roast pork or as a filling for cabbage rolls.

           3 cups canned low-salt chicken broth
           1 1/2 cups wild rice (about 9 ounces), rinsed, drained
           1 cup water
           2 teaspoons fennel seeds

           1 pound sweet Italian sausage, casings removed
           3 small fennel bulbs, trimmed, chopped (about 2 1/2 cups)
           2 medium onions, chopped (about 2 cups)
           3/4 cup chopped toasted walnuts (optional) 

Combine broth, rice, 1 cup water and fennel seeds in heavy large saucepan
over medium-high heat. Bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium, cover and
simmer until rice is tender, stirring occasionally, about 55 minutes.
Drain. 

Sauté sausage in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat until cooked
through, breaking up with back of spoon, about 10 minutes.  Using slotted
spoon, transfer sausage to paper towels and drain. Add chopped fennel
bulbs and onions to drippings in skillet. Sauté over medium-high heat
until vegetables are golden, about 10 minutes. Add rice and sausage to
skillet.  Sauté until heated through, about 3 minutes. Stir in walnuts, if
desired.  Season to taste with salt and pepper. (Can be prepared 1 day
ahead. Cover and refrigerate. If serving as side dish, rewarm covered in
350°F. oven for 20 minutes.) Transfer to bowl and serve. If using as
stuffing, cool completely and fill bird. 

Makes 6 cups


Rave reviews from the website I stole this from:

"This was easy and delicious! We will have this again as a side dish soon.
It seemed like a lot of fennel, but it cooks down nicely and is an
excellent addition to the wild rice. I had to talk everyone into trying a
new stuffing, but now they can't wait for me to make it again."

"Yummy and Easy! What a wonderful complement to our turkey cooked on the
barbeque. This may become our new traditional stuffing for Thanksgiving.
One day later, everyone is already fighting for leftovers!!"
