BUTTER COOKIES 

           2 cups all-purpose flour
           1/2 teaspoon salt
           1/4 teaspoon baking powder
           2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
           1 cup sugar
           1 large egg
           1 teaspoon vanilla 

Into a bowl sift together flour, salt, and baking powder. In a large bowl
with an electric mixer beat butter until creamy. Gradually add sugar,
beating until mixture is light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla and beat
until combined well.  Gradually add flour mixture, beating until mixture
just forms a dough. 

Divide dough between 2 large sheets of wax paper and form each half into a
10- x 1 1/2-inch log, wrapping it in wax paper. Chill logs until firm, at
least 4 hours, and up to 5 days. Dough may be frozen, wrapped in foil, 2
months. Let dough soften slightly before cutting. Preheat oven to 375°F. 
and lightly butter a baking sheet. 

Cut dough into 1/8-inch-thick slices and arrange slices about 1/2 inch
apart on baking sheet. Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until
golden around edges, 10 to 12 minutes, and transfer with a metal spatula
to a rack to cool.  Cookies may be kept in an airtight container at room
temperature 5 days. 
           
Makes about 100 cookies.


MAPLE LEAF BUTTER COOKIES 

           2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
           1 cup sugar
           1/2 cup Grade B maple syrup (or Grade A maple syrup flavored
           with 3 drops maple extract, or to taste)
           1 large egg yolk
           1 teaspoon salt
           3 cups all-purpose flour 

In a standing electric mixer cream together butter and sugar until light
and fluffy and beat in maple syrup and egg yolk until mixture is combined
well.  Sift together salt and flour over mixture and fold in thoroughly.
Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 2 hours. Dough may
be made 4 days ahead and chilled. 

Preheat oven to 350°F.

Divide dough in half. Keeping one half chilled, lightly flour other half
and on a lightly floured surface gently pound with a rolling pin to
soften. Roll out dough 1/8 inch thick and with a 3-inch floured maple-leaf
cookie cutter cut out cookies, chilling scraps. Arrange cookies on
buttered baking sheets and if desired, with back of a knife, mark cookies
decoratively. Make more cookies in same manner with remaining dough and
with all the scraps pressed together. 

Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until edges are golden, about 12
minutes, and transfer to racks to cool. Cookies keep in airtight
containers 1 week.

Makes about 40 cookies.


BUTTER COOKIES WITH RAISINS 

In England, these crisp raisin-flecked treats are called Madeira
biscuits-biscuit being the British word for cookie, and a glass of Madeira
being a favorite accompaniment for this particular type.

           3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
           2/3 cup sugar
           1/2 teaspoon salt
           1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
           1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
           1/2 cup raisins 

Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar and salt in large bowl until
creamy.  Mix in vanilla. Add flour and raisins; mix until smooth dough
forms. Divide dough in half. Shape each dough half into 1
1/2-inch-diameter log. Wrap each log in plastic; refrigerate until firm,
about 2 hours. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled.) 

Preheat oven to 375°F. Butter 2 large baking sheets. Cut each dough log
into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Place slices on prepared baking sheets,
spacing 1 inch apart. Bake until cookies are golden, about 10 minutes.
Cool slightly on baking sheets. Transfer to racks; cool completely. (Can
be made 3 days ahead.  Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Makes about 3 dozen.


AUNT LISL'S BUTTER COOKIES 

           1/2 pound (2 sticks) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
           3/4 cup sugar
           2 eggs
           1 tablespoon brandy (optional) 
           Dash of salt
           1/2 teaspoon vanilla
           3 1/2 cups flour
           1 egg yolk
           Chopped nuts and raisins 
           or
           1 egg white
           Coarse sugar colored with blue food coloring

           Equipment
           Measuring cup
           Measuring spoons
           Mixing bowl
           Wooden spoon
           Cookie cutters or toothpicks
           Rolling pin
           Greased baking sheet
           Pastry brush
           Metal spatula
           Cooling rack

In a bowl, cream the butter and sugar. Then mix in the eggs, brandy, salt,
vanilla, and flour. Let rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator. 

Roll out the dough to 1/8-inch thick. Preheat oven to 350°F.  Once you
have cut out the cookies, gently place them on the baking sheet. Then
either brush them with egg yolk and sprinkle with nuts and raisins or
brush with egg white and sprinkle with blue sugar.

Bake for about 10 minutes, or until golden brown [most likely longer than
10 min]. Use a metal spatula to gently remove each cookie from the baking
sheet to a cooling rack or flat plate. 

Makes about 48 cookies.


WOOKIE COOKIES 

[ I'm including this one because it got great reviews on the website I
stole it from ]

           2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
           1 teaspoon baking soda
           1 teaspoon salt
           1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
           1 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
           1 cup packed brown sugar
           1/2 cup granulated sugar
           2 large eggs
           1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
           1 cup milk chocolate chips
           1 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips 

Preheat the oven to 375°F. 

Put the flour, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon in a mixing bowl. Stir with
the wooden spoon until well mixed. Set aside. 

Put the butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar in another mixing bowl. 
Using the elextric mixer set on high speed, beat together until well
blended and creamy, about 3 minutes. (You can do this with a wooden spoon,
but it will take longer.) Beat in the eggs and vamilla extract. Add the
flour mixture and stir with the wooden spoon until blended. Stir in the
chocolate chips. 

Scoop up a rounded tablespoonful of the dough and drop onto a baking
sheet.  Repeat until you have used up all the dough. Be sure to leave
about 1 inch between the cookies because they spread as they bake. 

Using pot holders, put the baking sheets in the oven. Bake until golden
brown, about 10 minutes. 

Again, using pot holders, remove the baking sheets from the oven. Lift the
cookies from the baking sheets with a spatula, and place on cooling racks.
Let cool completely.

Makes about 3 dozen cookies.
