
Skinless Chicken Breasts with Balsamic Citrus Sauce

Prepare and keep warm in a 200F oven:

	Sauteed Boneless, Skinless Chicken Breasts (see below)

Remove all but about 1 tablespoon of the fat in the skillet, heat over
medium heat, and add:

	3 to 4 tablespoons minced shallots or scallions
	1 heaping tablespoon honey
	Pinch of ground allspice

Cook, stirring, until the shallots are wilted, 1 to 2 minutes.  Increase
heat to high and add:

	1 cup chicken stock
	1 tablespoon strained freash lemon jioce

Boil, scraping bottom of the skillet with a wooden spoon, until reduced to
about 1/2 cup.  Add:

	1/4 cup heavy cream

Boil until the sauce is slightly thickened, about 1 minute.  Add:

	1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
	Salt and ground black pepper to taste

Return to a boil, then spoon the sauce over the chicken and serve
immediately.



Sauteed Boneless, Skinless Chicken Breasts (Basic Recipe)

[a bunch of preamble about chicken breasts]

Rince and pat dry:

	4 boneless, skinless chicken breasts halves (about 1 1/2 pounds)

Trim any fat around the edges.  If you wish, remove the white tendron
running through the tenderloins.  Sprinkle both sides with:

	Salt and ground black pepper to taste

Spread on a plate:

	1/4 cup all-purpose flour

coat the chicken on both sides witht eh flour, pressing to make sure the
tenderloins, the thin strips of meat un the undersides of the breast,
adhere. Gently shake off the excess flour, holding the chicken tapered
side up to avoid detaching the tenderloins.  Heat in a heavy 10- to
12-inch skillet over medium-high heat until fragrant and nut-brown:

	1 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
	1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil

Swirl the butter and oil together.  Arrange the chicken tenderloin side
down int he skillet and saute for exactly 4 minutes, keeping fat as hot as
possible without letting it burn.  Using tongs, turnt eh chicken and cook
until the flesh feels firm to the touch and milky jiuces appear around the
tenerloins, 3 to 5 minutes more.  Serve immediately, or remove to a
platter and keep warm in a very low oven while you prepare [other stuff]. 

