THAI-STYLE SPICY EGGPLANT

Heated in wok until just about to smoke:

	1 cup vegetable oil

Add:

	4 Asian eggplant, sliced irregularily in 2" wedges

Cook on one side for about 2 minutes, then turn and cook other side for
about 2 minutes or until both sides are lightly browned and the eggplant
can be pearced easily with a fork.  Remove the eggplant and put in on a
rake (or paper towel?) to drain off the excess oil.  Discard oil from wok
and wipe clean.  Return the wok to the heat and add:

	2 tbsp vegetable oil
	1 tsp finely chopped garlic
	2 fresh hot chilies, finely chopped

Stir-fry for about 30 sec and then add:

	1 half med onion, roughly chopped
	1/4 red bell pepper, sliced into thin strips

Stir-fry for about 10 sec and then return the eggplant to the wok and add:

	2 tbsp soy sauce
	1 tsp sugar
	1/2 cup water

Let stir-fry until everything is bubbling "happily".  Then add:

	about 20 whole fresh basil leaves
	1/2 tsp cornstarch desolved in 1 or 2 tbsp water

Let cook for about a minute, until the sauce begins to get a bit thick.
Serve on rice.  Throw on a few more basil leaves and a bit of sliced bell
pepper for presentation.



BROILED EGGPLANT WITH GARLIC SAUCE 

           2 pound small eggplants (about 12), halved lengthwise
           1 teaspoon salt
           1 teaspoon minced garlic
           1 tablespoon soy sauce
           1 tablespoon rice vinegar (not seasoned)
           1 tablespoon dark sesame oil (Asian)
           vegetable oil for brushing eggplants 

Score cut sides of eggplant in a cross-hatch pattern and sprinkle with
salt. Let eggplant stand 30 minutes. Rinse eggplant and pat dry. 

Preheat broiler.

In a small bowl whisk together garlic, soy sauce, vinegar, and sesame oil. 

Arrange eggplant, cut sides down, on oiled baking sheets and brush skins
lightly with vegetable oil. Broil eggplant 3 to 4 inches from heat until
skins are softened, 3 to 4 minutes. Turn eggplant and brush lightly with
more vegetable oil. Broil eggplant 3 to 4 minutes, or until flesh is
golden.  Transfer eggplant with a slotted spatula to a platter and brush
with garlic sauce.

Serves 8.


SZECHWAN-STYLE EGGPLANT WITH PITA WEDGES

           1/4 cup vegetable oil
           a 1 1/4-pound eggplant, peeled if desired and cut into 1/2-inch
             cubes (about 6 cups)
           1 teaspoon cornstarch
           1/2 cup chicken broth
           1 teaspoon minced garlic
           1 tablespoon minced peeled fresh gingerroot
           2 to 3 teaspoons Szechwan chili paste*, or to taste
           1 teaspoon hoisin sauce*
           1 tablespoon rice vinegar* or white-wine vinegar
           1 tablespoon dry Sherry
           3 scallions, sliced thin
           2 tablespoons soy sauce
           1 tablespoon firmly packed light brown sugar
           1 red bell pepper, minced
           1/2 teaspoon Oriental sesame oil, or to taste
           white pita and whole-wheat pita, cut into wedges,
              as an accompaniment

In a wok or large skillet heat the vegetable oil over high heat until it
is hot but not smoking and in it stir-fry the eggplant over moderately
high heat for 3 to 5 minutes, or until it is tender and browned. Transfer
the eggplant with a slotted spoon to paper towels to drain. 

In a small bowl dissolve the cornstarch in the broth. To the wok add the
garlic, the gingerroot, the chili paste, the hoisin sauce, the vinegar,
and the Sherry and stir-fry the mixture for 30 seconds. Add the scallions
and stir-fry the mixture for 30 seconds. Add the soy sauce, the brown
sugar, the cornstarch mixture, stirred, the bell pepper, and the eggplant
and stir-fry the mixture for 1 minute, or until the eggplant has absorbed
most of the liquid. Remove the wok from the heat, add the sesame oil and
salt and pepper to taste, and toss the mixture well. The eggplant mixture
may be made 1 day in advance and kept covered and chilled. Transfer the
eggplant mixture to a bowl and serve it with the pita wedges.

Makes about 4 cups.
