TANDOORI (INDIAN BARBECUED) CHICKEN  

Tandoori Murghi

Of all the food cooked in a tandoor,the most popular and the best-tasting is chicken. The
distinctive flavor, texture, and color of this dish are achieved by a particular yogurt
marinade, by the use of tenderizers, a special tandoori coloring, and finally, by being cooked
in the Indian clay oven.

The recipe given here is designed for the conventional oven and charcoal grill.

3 very young broiling chickens (about 2 - 2 1/4 pounds each)
2 1/2 teaspoons unseasoned natural meat tenderizer
1/3 cup lemon juice

For marinade
2 large cloves garlic
1 tablespoon chopped fresh ginger root
1 teaspoon ground roasted cumin seeds
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon red pepper
1 teaspoon tandoori coloring, or 1 tablespoon paprika
1/3 cup plain yogurt
Usli ghee,Indian vegetable shortening, or light vegetable oil for basting 

1. Cut the wings off the chickens. Remove the neckbone carefully. Place the chickens on a
cutting board and quarter them neatly. Then pull away the skin, using kitchen towels for a
better grip if necessary. (Reserve the wings, neck, and skin for the stockpot.) Prick the
chicken all over with a fork or a thin skewer. Make diagonal slashes 1/2-inch deep, 1 inch
apart on the meat. Put the meat in a large bowl.

2. Add meat tenderizer and lemon juice to the chicken, and rub them into the slashes and all
over for 2 minutes. Cover and marinate for 1/2 hour.

3. Put all the ingredients of the marinade into the container of an electric blender or food
processor, and blend until reduced to a smooth sauce. (Alternatively, garlic and ginger may be
crushed to a paste and blended with the remaining ingredients.)

4. Pour this marinade over the chicken pieces and mix, turning and tossing, to coat all the
pieces well. (A note of caution:Since certain brands of Tandooricooking tend to stain the
fingers, it is advisable either to use a fork to turn the chicken pieces in the marinade or
use a pastry brush to spread it over the chicken.) Cover and marinate for 4 hours at room
temperature, or refrigerate overnight, turning several times. Chicken should not remain in the
marinade for more than 2 days, because the marinade contains a meat tenderizer which, with
prolonged marinating, alters the texture of the chicken meat to very soft and doughy.

5. Take the chicken from the refrigerator at least 1 hour before cooking to bring it to room
temperature. The chicken is now ready to be either roasted in the oven or broiled over an
electric or charcoal grill.

To Roast in the Oven:
Start heating the oven to 500°- 550°F. Take the chickens out of the marinade. Brush them with
ghee,and place them on an extra-large shallow roasting pan, preferably on a wire rack. Set the
pan in the middle level of the oven, and roast for 25-30 minutes, or until the meat is cooked
through. There is no need to baste while the chicken pieces are roasting, because the enclosed
environment keeps the chickens from drying excessively.

To Broil Indoors:
Preheat the broiler. Brush the grill with a little oil to prevent the meat's sticking. Place
the chicken pieces, slashed side up, on the grill, and brush the slashed side with ghee.Cook 2
to 3 inches away from the heat for 20 minutes. Turn and cook the other side for another 10
minutes, or until the chicken pieces are cooked through. Brush often with gheeduring cooking.

To Grill Outdoors:
Fire the coal well in advance (about 1 1/2 hours before you are ready to begin cooking), so
that a white ash forms over the surface of the coal. This is when the coal is at its hottest.
Place the grill at least 5 inches away from the heat, and rub generously with oil. Place the
chicken pieces, slashed side up, over the grill and brush them with ghee.Let chicken cook
without turning for 10 minutes. Turn, baste the other side, and cook for 10 minutes. Continue
to cook, turning and basting the chicken every 10 minutes, until it is done. The cooking time
for broiling and grilling usually varies widely. Much depends upon the intensity of the heat
and its distance from the chicken. The point to remember is that the chicken pieces have been
marinating in a very strong tenderizing solution for two days and therefore will cook much
faster than standard broiled or barbecued chicken.

Serve the chicken immediately, lightly brushed with ghee or oil and accompanied by Roasted
Onions.

Classic Indian Cooking 
Julie Sahni  
William Morrow and Company, Inc.
