from http://members.aol.com/meadowscd/recipes/sausage.htm

Vegetarian Sausage Recipes 


BIONIC BREAKFAST SAUSAGES 

Serving Size : 8 

Categories : Vegetarian Sausage 

Amount Measure Ingredient -- Preparation Method 

-------- ------------ -------------------------------- 

1 cup Raw bulgur wheat* -- cooked 

1/4 cup Gluten or whole wheat flour 

1 1/2 teaspoons Ener-G egg replacer mixed -- well with 2 T. water 

1 tablespoon Nutritional yeast 

2 tablespoons Tamari 

1 teaspoon Dried basil leaves 

1/2 teaspoon Poultry seasoning 

1/2 teaspoon Paprika 

1/2 teaspoon Sage 

1/2 teaspoon Garlic powder 

1/2 teaspoon Black pepper 

1/4 teaspoon Crushed dried red pepper -- flakes 

*To cook bulgur wheat: Put one cup bulgur wheat in a saucepan with 2 1/2
cups water and one teaspoon salt. Bring to a boil, then
turn down to medium-low and simmer for 20 to 25 minutes. Remove from hat
and let stand for 10 minutes before using. 

In a bowl, mix cooked bulgur wheat and gluten or whole wheat flour well. 

Add nutritional yeast to egg replacer and water; mix into bulgur mixture. 

Add tamari and the rest of the seasonings, mixing well. 

Form into patties and saute in a little vegetable oil in a nonstick
skillet on medium-high heat for about 5 minutes on each side. OR
bake them on a greased cookie sheet in a 350 degree F. oven for 20 to 25
minutes or until crispy brown on the outside. 



BLACK BEAN SAUSAGE WITH TOFU AND FRESH CORN 

Serving Size : 8 

Categories : Vegetarian Sausage 

Amount Measure Ingredient -- Preparation Method 

-------- ------------ -------------------------------- 

2 small Shallots 

3 large Cloves garlic 

1 bn Fresh cilantro 

3/4 cup Vegetable stock 

2 ounces Plain unflavored gelatin 

1 tablespoon Vegetable oil 

2 cups Cooked black beans 

1/2 teaspoon Salt 

1/2 teaspoon Ground white pepper 

1/2 medium Green bell pepper 

1 small Carrot -- peeled 

1/4 cup Firm tofu 

1/4 cup Fresh corn kernels 

Mince the shallows and garlic. Chop the cilantro. Set aside. 

Heat oil in a heavy saute pan over moderate heat. When oil is hot, add the
shallots and garlic. Saute for 2 to 3 minutes or until
tender. Set aside to cool. 

Place the beans, salt, and white pepper in a food processor fitted with a
metal blade and process until beans are pureed. 

Transfer to a large bowl. 

To make garnis, remove seeds and membrane from the bell pepper. 

Cut the pepper and carrot into very small (1/8 in.) dice. 

Heat oil in a saute pan over moderate heat. When oil is hot, add pepper
and carrots and saute for 2 to 3 minutes or until tender.
Cool _completely_. 

Drain and towel dry tofu. Cut the tofu into very small (1/8 in.) dice. Add
tofu, corn, and cooled sauteed vegetables to bean
mixture, stirring to combine. Transfer to a bowl. 

Pour stock into a double boiler. Sprinkle the surface with gelatin and
allow it to _bloom_ for about 10 minutes. Heat gelatin to a
syrupy consistency over water that is 100 to 110 degees F. Remove and
allow gelatin to thicken slightly. 

Set the bowl of bean/vegetable misture into a large bowl filled with ice
and stir occasionally as it cools. Add the gelatin. 

folding to combine, and continue stirring until thickened and well
chilled. 

To assemble sausage, spoon mixture onto a sheet of plastic wrap in a long
line. Roll up (like a cigar), twisting the ends closed and
securing with butcher's twine, if desired. Chill 3 or 4 hours or
overnight. 

To serve, remove plastic and cut on the bias into 1/2-inch- thick slices. 



BULGHUR WHEAT "SAUSAGE" PATTIES 

Serving Size : 8 

Categories : Vegetarian Sausage 

Amount Measure Ingredient -- Preparation Method 

-------- ------------ -------------------------------- 

2 cups Cooked AM Bulghur Wheat 

1/4 cup AM Whole Wheat Flour 

1 tablespoon Crushed basil leaves 

1 Egg 

3/4 teaspoon Sage 

3/4 teaspoon Poultry seasoning 

Sea salt to taste (optional) 

Oil or non-stick spray 

Mix the bulghur wheat, egg, whole wheat flour, basil, sage, poultry
seasoning and salt together. Form into patties and roll in whole
wheat flour. Fry in a small amount of oil until lightly browned. These may
be wrapped in individual packages and reheated. Cook
like hamburger meat or add to casseroles in place of meat. 

Variation: Form into cocktail size balls, before cooking and serve with
sweet and sour sauce. 

NOTES: 

1) 3/4 cup of grated cheddar cheese can be added. 

2) Mixture forms better when slightly chilled Source: Arrowhead Mills "The
Natural Way to Start Your Day" tri-fold Reprinted by
permission of Arrowhead Mills, Inc. 

Electronic format courtesy of: Karen Mintzias 



HERBAL BEAN SAUSAGES 

Serving Size : 12 

Categories : Vegetarian Sausage 

Amount Measure Ingredient -- Preparation Method 

-------- ------------ -------------------------------- 

2 cups Cooked pinto beans 

1/2 cup Whole wheat breadcrumbs 

1/2 cup Onion -- minced 

1 Garlic clove -- minced 

1/2 cup Tomato sauce 

1/8 teaspoon Fennel seed -- crushed 

1/8 teaspoon Dried red pepper 

1/8 teaspoon Dried basil -- -OR- 

1/2 teaspoon -Fresh basil 

1 1/2 teaspoons Chopped fresh parsley 

Salt -- to taste 

-----MUSHROOM-RED PEPPER SAUCE----- 

1 Red bell pepper -- minced 

1/8 cup Vegetable broth or water -- OR- more as needed 

4 large Mushrooms -- minced 

1/4 cup Onion -- minced 

Salt -- to taste 

1/8 teaspoon Celery seed 

1/2 teaspoon Chopped fresh oregano 

1 dash Black pepper 

Whole wheat flour 

These plant-based sausages taste great, contain no added fat except the
vegetable oil they're fried in, and are easy to make. These
ingredients yield fairly mild sausages; after you've tried them, adjust
the seasonings to please your palate. 

DIRECTIONS: Combine all ingredients in a mixing bowl, mix thoroughly, and
shape into 1- to 2-inch sausages. Saute in a small
amount of vegetable oil until crisp, or place in a baking pan and broil,
turning when edges are slightly crisp. Serve with
Mushroom-Red Pepper Sauce (below). 

MUSHROOM-RED PEPPER SAUCE: Cook red pepper in vegetable broth for 5 to 7
minutes until tender. Add mushrooms,
onion, salt, celery seed, oregano, and black pepper. Cook 5 minutes longer
or until onion is transparent. 

Quickly whisk in enough flour to just thicken the sauce, about 2
tablespoons at a time. Immediately remove from burner. Do not
overcook, or flour will cake. If needed, add more vegetable broth or
water. Serve over sausages, whole grains, or vegetables. 

* Source: Karen Iacobbo, in The Herb Companion, October/November 1993 *
Typed for you by Karen Mintzias 



SAUSAGE PATTIES 

Serving Size : 2 

Categories : Vegetarian Sausage 

Amount Measure Ingredient -- Preparation Method 

-------- ------------ -------------------------------- 

8 ounces Tempeh 

-----REGULAR SEASONINGS----- 

1/2 teaspoon Sage 

1/2 teaspoon Marjoram 

1/2 teaspoon Thyme 

1/2 teaspoon Cumin 

2 tablespoons -Warm water 

2 tablespoons Soy sauce 

2 tablespoons Oil 

-----ITALIAN SAUSAGE SEASONINGS----- 

2 Garlic cloves -- pressed 

1/2 teaspoon Red pepper flakes 

1 teaspoon Oregano 

1/4 teaspoon Black pepper 

2 tablespoons Flour 

2 tablespoons Oil 

2 tablespoons Soy sauce 

Steam tempeh for 15 minutes. Cool, grate on coarse side of grater. Mix
together dry seasonings, then stir in water, oil and soy
sauce. Press firmly into thin patties. Fry in a little oil until browned
on both sides. 

Italian Sausage: Grate the steamed tempeh. Mix together dry seasonings. 

Combine tempeh, dry seasonings, oil and soy sauce. Press into thin patties
or crumble on top of pizza before it is baked. 

From The Farm Vegetarian Cookbook. Uploaded by Nan Blanchard 



VEGETABLE SAUSAGE (HOY JAW) 

Serving Size : 4 

Categories : Vegetarian Sausage 

Amount Measure Ingredient -- Preparation Method 

-------- ------------ -------------------------------- 

1 tablespoon Flour 

2 tablespoons -Water 

1 teaspoon Coarsely chopped garlic 

1 teaspoon Coriander root -- - (coarsely chopped) 

1 teaspoon Whole black peppercorns 

2 tablespoons Oil 

2 ounces Taro -- peeled 

and coarsely chopped 

1 Carrot (more if desired) -- - coarsely chopped 

1/2 cup Water chestnuts -- - coarsely chopped 

2 ounces Pre-soaked Chinese mushrooms -- - coarsely chopped 

1/2 cup Beansprouts -- coarsly chopped 

2 tablespoons Light soy sauce 

1 teaspoon Sugar 

3 large Beancurd sheets 

Oil -- for deep-frying 

-----TO GARNISH----- 

Lettuce 

Mint leaves 

Mix the flour and water to form a paste and set aside. In a mortar pound
together the garlic, coriander root and peppercorns to
form a paste. Heat the oil and briefly fry the garlic paste, then add all
the remaining ingredients down to and including the sugar,
stirring constantly. Add the flour and water paste and stir to thicken.
Remove from the heat and leave to cool. 

Drain the beancurd sheets and spread out on a flat surface. Place a line
of the cooled filling along one edge of each sheet and roll
to form a long sausage. Place the 3 sausages in a steamer and steam for 15
minutes. 

Remove and leave to cool. 

When ready to serve, deep-fry the sausages until golden brown, drain and
slice into 1/4-inch (6 mm) rounds and serve on a bed of
lettuce and mint leaves with Plum Sauce. 

Vatcharin Bhumichitr "Thai Vegetarian Cooking"
